Tutorial: how to do a canary release (#4917)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/canary-release.md

---
title: How to do a canary release with feature flags in PostHog
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
author: ['ian-vanagas']
date: 2022-12-19
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/canary-release.png
topics: ["feature flags", "persons"]
---

> Few things are worse for a developer than shipping a new feature, having it unexpectedly break, and frantically work to fix it. This can negatively impact your product, user experience, and engineering productivity. To mitigate problems with new features, teams often roll out features gradually to test for issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Few things are worse for a developer than shipping a new feature, having it unexpectedly break, and then scrambling to fix it. This can negatively impact your product, user experience, and engineering productivity. To mitigate problems with new features, teams often roll out features gradually to test for issues.
```

It may be me over-thinking, but I think the tense gets a bit weird here. One way round it is: 'shipping a new feature, having it unexpectedly break, and having to frantically work to fix it.' - but that feels repetitive. Maybe cutting the adverb and using a new verb like this helps? Up to you.

Author: I like this better, I did think it was a bit awkward too.

This gradual release is also known as a canary release or deployment. This tutorial covers what it is, and how to set it up and monitor it in PostHog.

## What is a canary release?

A canary release or canary deployment is the process of rolling out a new feature to a subset of users before releasing it to a larger group. Developers check the new feature is working without issues on the limited group. They watch for issues and analyze usage metrics to make sure. Once satisfied with tests and analysis, the feature rolls out to a larger group (or everyone).

> The name comes from the phrase “canary in a coal mine” which alludes to miners bringing a canary into mines with them. If there were toxic gases, the canary dies and stops chirping, giving an early warning to the miners to get out before they do the same. Testing on a small group of users acts as a canary for issues with the feature, preventing those issues from affecting a larger group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name comes from the phrase “canary in a coal mine” which alludes to miners bringing a canary into mines with them. If there were toxic gases, the canary would die and stop chirping, giving an early warning to the miners to get out before they do the same. Testing on a small group of users acts as a canary for issues with the feature, preventing those issues from affecting a larger group.
```

## Prerequisites for canary releases

> To setup a canary release in PostHog, we use feature flags. Before we do this, we need  user identification setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup a canary release in PostHog, we use feature flags. Before we do this, we need user identification setup.
```

removing double space

4. **Expanded beta:** set release to a percentage of users or set it to match a popular property. Monitor insights and sessions related to the feature compared to those without. The overall metrics will be more important here.
5. **Full release:** set release to 100% of users, check metrics again, delete the flag, and announce the feature. 

At PostHog, we do all of these. Our feature flag page contains features at different stages of roll out. For example, when users have specific issues, we might canary release a fix to them before releasing it to others.

![PostHog's feature flags](../images/tutorials/canary-release/posthog-flags.png)

## Monitoring a canary release

The key to a canary release is hearing from the “canary.” Getting feedback and hearing issues is critical to the process whether it is from your team, a limited group of external users, or everyone. Setting clear expectations and having channels for communication enables the canary release to work. Without them, issues go unreported and cause problems for more users than needed.

> On top of hearing about issues from users, you can see issues in PostHog. This looks like key metrics or events decreasing, or the number of errors increasing. The benefit of having all your product data in one place is that all your data about your canary release is in one place too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of hearing about issues from users, you can see issues in PostHog. This may look like key metrics or events decreasing, or the number of errors increasing. The benefit of having all your product data in one place is that all your data about your canary release is in one place too.
```

> You can filter your insights by a feature flag to see how the release is progressing. For example, if you are running an experiment on the signup page, it is useful to know if it is improving signup conversion. You can set up a funnel for the conversion, then breakdown by the feature flag name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can filter your insights by a feature flag to see how the release is progressing. For example, if you are running an experiment on a signup page, it is useful to know if it is improving signup conversion. You can set up a funnel for the conversion, then breakdown by the feature flag name.
```

![Funnel](../images/tutorials/canary-release/funnel.png)

You can also get session recordings related to feature flags. On the session recording list, filter for sessions including your feature flag. Once you choose a recording, you can filter it for specific events or actions. This enables you to get a better idea of the details of how users are interacting with your new feature.

> > **Tip:** You can go from funnels to session recordings by clicking the completed or dropped off value in the visualization. This will give you a list of users with session recordings related to that funnel and release.

Reviewer: Really like these sort of tips fyi
